.\" Manpage for installer
.\" Contact your.email@example.com to correct errors or typos.
.TH INSTALLER 1 "January 2024" "1.0.0" "User Commands"

.SH NAME
installer \- secure tool for installing binaries and scripts system-wide with history tracking

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B installer
[\fIOPTIONS\fR] \fIFILE\fR
.br
.B installer
\fB\-\-history\fR [\fB\-\-all\fR] [\fB\-\-search\fR \fIQUERY\fR]
.br
.B installer
\fB\-\-uninstall\fR \fIFILE_NAME\fR
.br
.B installer
\fB\-\-install\-self\fR

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B installer
is a secure, feature-rich tool for installing compiled binaries and Python scripts system-wide.
It provides comprehensive history tracking, protection against security vulnerabilities, and
supports both system-wide and user-local installations.

The tool automatically detects Python scripts and handles shebang management, removes .py
extensions by default, and maintains a complete audit trail of all installations and
uninstallations.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.I FILE
Path to the binary or script to install.

.TP
.BR \-n ", " \-\-name " " \fINAME\fR
Install the file with a custom name instead of using the source filename.

.TP
.BR \-f ", " \-\-force
Force overwrite if the target file already exists without prompting.

.TP
.BR \-k ", " \-\-keep\-extension
Keep the .py extension for Python scripts (default behavior is to remove it).

.TP
.BR \-d ", " \-\-install\-dir " " \fIDIRECTORY\fR
Specify the installation directory (default: /usr/local/bin).

.TP
.BR \-u ", " \-\-uninstall " " \fIFILE_NAME\fR
Uninstall a previously installed file from the installation directory.

.TP
.BR \-U ", " \-\-user
Install to user directory (~/.local/bin) instead of system-wide. This option
does not require sudo privileges.

.TP
.BR \-S ", " \-\-install\-self
Install the installer tool itself to the system PATH.

.TP
.BR \-H ", " \-\-history
Display installation history. Shows currently installed files by default.

.TP
.BR \-a ", " \-\-all
When used with \-\-history, shows all installation and uninstallation events
instead of just currently installed files.

.TP
.BR \-s ", " \-\-search " " \fIQUERY\fR
Search history for specific files or patterns. Must be used with \-\-history.

.TP
.B \-\-history\-file " " \fIFILE\fR
Use a custom history file location instead of the default.

.TP
.BR \-h ", " \-\-help
Display help message and exit.

.SH SECURITY FEATURES
.B installer
implements several security measures:

.TP
.B Path Traversal Protection
Validates all paths to ensure files are only installed within the designated directory.

.TP
.B Symlink Detection
Detects and rejects symlinks and hardlinks to prevent security vulnerabilities.

.TP
.B TOCTOU Prevention
Prevents time-of-check to time-of-use attacks by verifying file integrity throughout
the installation process.

.TP
.B Atomic Operations
Uses temporary files and atomic moves to ensure system consistency and prevent
corruption during installation.

.TP
.B File Locking
Implements proper file locking for history operations to prevent race conditions.

.SH FILES
.TP
.I /usr/local/bin
Default system-wide installation directory.

.TP
.I ~/.local/bin
User installation directory (when using \-\-user flag).

.TP
.I /var/log/installer-history.json
System-wide installation history file (requires root).

.TP
.I ~/.local/share/installer/history.json
User installation history file.

.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
Install a binary system-wide:
.B sudo installer ./myprogram

.TP
Install a Python script (removes .py extension):
.B sudo installer ./script.py

.TP
Install with a custom name:
.B sudo installer ./build/app-v2.1 --name myapp

.TP
Install to user directory without sudo:
.B installer ./myprogram --user

.TP
View installation history:
.B sudo installer --history

.TP
Search history for a specific file:
.B sudo installer --history --search myapp

.TP
View all installation/uninstallation events:
.B sudo installer --history --all

.TP
Uninstall a file:
.B sudo installer --uninstall myapp

.TP
Install the installer itself:
.B sudo installer --install-self

.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
Successful execution.

.TP
.B 1
An error occurred during execution (e.g., installation failed, file not found,
permission denied).

.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B SUDO_USER
Used to track which user initiated a sudo installation.

.TP
.B USER
Fallback for tracking the installing user if SUDO_USER is not set.

.SH NOTES
System-wide installations require sudo/root privileges. Use the \-\-user flag to
install to ~/.local/bin without elevated privileges.

The tool maintains a complete history of all installations and uninstallations,
which can be useful for system administration and auditing purposes.

Python scripts are automatically detected by their .py extension or shebang line.
The tool ensures all Python scripts have proper shebang lines and makes them
executable.

.SH BUGS
Report bugs to: https://github.com/pedroanisio/installer/issues

.SH AUTHOR
Written by Your Name.

.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright © 2024 Your Name. License: MIT
.br
This is free software: you are free to change and redistribute it.
There is NO WARRANTY, to the extent permitted by law.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR chmod (1),
.BR install (1),
.BR pip (1),
.BR which (1)

The full documentation is available at:
.br
https://github.com/pedroanisio/installer